1) How is Smile Mart described?  Why is this place so comfortable for Keiko?  What is Smile Mart for her?  
2) She feel that "(her) present self is formed almost completely of the people around (her)."  She consciously mimics other workers' speech patterns and behaviors.  Does this mean she doesn't have a self?  
3) The word "normal" recurrs throughout the story.   What is Keiko's view on being "normal"?   Is Murata sympathetic to her protagonist?  Is Murata criticizing the societal pressure to conform through her protagonist?     
4) What do you think of Shiraha?  What is his role in the story? 
5) How would you read the ending, especially her last words to Shiraha?  Is this a happy ending for Keiko, finally choosing the Convenience Store as the place she belongs?  Or Is this a bleek ending where the protagonist goes back to become a cog of a machine, refusing to be a human?   
6) This may not be directly related to the stire question but why do you think the English title has "woman" while Japanese original doesn't.  The title in Japanese can be directly translated as "A Convenience Store Human" rather than "A Convenience Store Woman." 


Smile Mart for Keiko presents as a self-contained world in which 'order' is clearly, objectively defined. Elusive criteria of what it means to conduct oneself in a civilized manner, enforced upon her in social life outside of the convenience store, does not exist in the convenience store. Or rather, it is well documented. Outside of the store, she is expected to pick things up via empirical experience without ever being explicitly told. But in the store, all she must do is consult a manual. In many ways Keiko reminded me of some cases of neurodivergence. We are wont to assume that all people are able to (and thus should) pick up non-verbal social cues and act accordingly. However, for certain individuals like Keiko, reading the air is a virtually impossible task. When individuals like her deviate from our shared sense of normalcy, regardless of the intentions behind such deviations, we see them as an anomaly and attack them into submission or further alienate them from society. I believe this to be a response rooted in fear and a desire for predictability and control. 

Just because she is a product of her social landscape does not necessarily imply that Keiko has no self. "Self" is an ill-defined concept. What constitutes 'self'? Is it continuity? Is it physicality? Does it require free will, or consciousness? As a hard determinist, I do not believe in free will. Our brains are but optimizing Turing machines, and all of our choices are decided as the response of our optimization mechanism to environmental (including genetic) inputs (albeit incorporating probabilistic fluctuations for wider data extraction). The modern understanding of consciousness, too, is that it is but a solution to limited memory for data storage. We are physically incapable of recording the vast amounts of information we take in in our day to day lives, so we've developed a mechanism for condensing information into abstract concepts, principles, or beliefs, and basing our actions on these instead. Even if we 'believe' these actions and choices to be a product of our free will, or an embodiment of a metaphysical 'self', the reality is that simply put, consciousness is an afterthought to the decisions that we make, which are in turn informed by our optimization process being trained on packets of diverse, abstracted information. So, all of the characters in the book who fuss about Keiko's seeming lack of emotion and common sense and fear her for her almost robotic demeanor, are also robots themselves, only ignorant to the fact. 





