
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%


ピンク

私のスリルとサスペンス
出自はいい
義母　親父の金だけのためにくっついた淫売女　→ 行為よりもエージェンシーの欠如を問題視している。
実母　女の子は綺麗でちゃんとしてなきゃいけない



  3) What do you think is the function of the alligator?  What is it for Yumi, and what is it for the story?   
  4) In the afterword, Okazaki quotes Jean-Luc Godard's words, "all work is prostitution."   The quote seems to equate Yumi's day job with her work as a sex-worker and Haruo's job as a writer and a male prostitute.  What do you think of this equasion?  
  5) Describe Haruo.  Did you feel that his feelings for Yumi is genuine?  If you did, how does that affect your reading of the ending? 


Alligator -> creates a space obscure from the outside world, a 親密圏 structured around yumi. Yumi's big secret, the greed and life lust and ambition that drives her to her work. 

All labor is fundamentally prostitution, and as such i

Reading PINK by Okazaki Kyoko has me torn. I can see that this comic is extraordinary and sets a new standard for contemporary literature. The setting, a late-stage capitalist world where high levels of material satisfaction obfuscate class disparity and directs angst and frustration induced by the system away from a critique of the system, gives the book a vivid sense of reality. Instead of bemoaning her lack of freedom to pursue her desires, Yumi works a second job as a prostitute to raise enough money to afford the "material freedom" permitted to her under the system. Likewise, Haruo, in the midst of his existential confusion, pours his energy into writing, and subsequently achieves societal acceptance for his work. The depiction of the problem, if I might call it that, is alarmingly real. And the embracement of the resulting decadence and postmodern ennui by the characters, a reflection of the same sentiment in us readers, is truer still. This is where I disagree with myself. I want to call this book a masterpiece for its deft portrayal of the existential condition of contemporary human life. But in doing so, I am afraid I would be ceding that Love and Capitalism are inalienable. I am afraid that deep down I do not fundamentally disagree with the following words of the author: 
『全ての仕事は愛でもあります。..."資本主義"...を泳げない子供がプールに脅えるように脅えるのはカッコ悪いな。...私は「幸福」を恐れません。』
Let me frame this in the context of prostitution. It should be evident to anyone with a more than cursory understanding of economics that there is no fundamental difference between prostitution and other forms of labor. Wage labor in the capitalist market is workers selling their worth and providing their body in one way or another (be it a desk job or blue collar job) to earn a living. We are all contracting off the resources and assets that we have, translating them into monetary value, and using it to then buy the fruits of other people's labor. Just because the resource in question is physical intimacy and sexual prowess does not make it any different from other forms of labor (a masseuse also contracts off their physical labor and pleasures their clients, where's the stigma in their profession?). Any opposition to this view is rooted in the normative and arbitrary belief that 'sex' is a sanctified act to be reserved between individuals of a more intimate and less professional (again, arbitrary since even intimate relationships are mostly if not all contractual and rooted in exchange, much akin to professional relationships), and for those who spout this mundane bullshit I say to stop aggrandizing and thereby obsessing over sex you perverted creeps. Prostitution is like any other job... and therein lies the problem. Like any other job, it is prone to exploitation. It is dictated by the whims of the market and does not always align with one's vision of self actualization. Some are forced into it against their will via either economic necessity or extortion by people/systems. And this is why I don't want to believe that labor is love, and "happiness" in the material setting we are condemned to is something to be embraced. 
On this note, let me return to the story of PINK. The alligator seemed to me to be a metaphor for Yumi's insatiable lust. When the story begins, the feeling of displacement and frustration with the way of the world, felt by Yumi, Haruo, and Yumi's little sister, is much stronger. While still going along with capitalism, both Yumi and Haruo find ways to defy that societally proposed 'good' in engaging in prostitution and (especially for Yumi) pursuing her material whims in a way inaccessible to those who subscribe to 'normalcy'. In this way, she continues to feed her alligator and live in the outlandish way that, while still well within the confines of capitalism, should be out of reach for someone of her age and status. The alligator also helps to create an isolated bubble for Yumi, Haruo, and Yumi's little sister. The shared 'secret' of the alligator builds a private sphere around them in which they entertain vague dreams and thoughts that depart from the way of the world. However, as Haruo finds success and Yumi finds comfort and 'happiness' in her life with Haruo, the significance of the alligator gradually fades away till the alligator is no longer with them, their private sphere is broken, and they have adapted to life under capitalism. The final moments of the comic make me wonder whether the two truly ever left for the tropical islands, or remained ensnared by their jobs, their responsibilities, and the lethargic comfort of 'love'. 
I am a romantic. I believe that love is not borne of expediency and comfort but of unconditionality and the arbitrary will to be with another. That is why exclusivity, monogamy, all the of the requisite conditions that constitute silver screen romance stand on the exact opposite end of love. The social view of love is a contract between individuals to agree to act in accordance with a number of rules: to not have sex with other people, to not share the same level of emotional connection with other people, to pretend to maintain a steady and high level of emotional investment towards the other party till death parts the two. Love should not be conditioned on whether the other party returns the love, or on the nature of the other party's relationships with other people. No, societal love is not a pure emotion, it is an agreement to provide each other (the illusion of) comfort with the limited means available under capitalism. To see Haruto and Yumi gradually accept this construct to define their relationship was the definitive sign of their shift into complacency, and it pained me to see it. Is this happiness? No, it has to be euphoria-induced torpor. 
So why am I torn? Because I feel very strongly the temptations that compelled Yumi and Haruo to reach the end that they did. PINK increased the intensity with which I face the question that haunts me as of late. Do I believe what I know? Do I fight based on what my head believes, or flee based on what my heart believes? 



ワニ自身も南国に返してくれるだろう→ 返さなかった。資本主義から逸脱しなかった。
ハルオが事故死→南国に行けない

南国の意味＝資本主義からの脱却　→ 叶わない？

s
母の自殺＝幸せじゃなければ生きていく意味がない　





